Project Log

I recently came up with the core idea here, of a 3-dimensional field that appears
to be mathematically coherent if not necessarily meaningful.  The idea can either
be regarded as an extension of Dual numbers or a simplification of Surreal Numbers.
At present I'm calling it Super Simplified Surreal numbers, which sounds better
than triel numbers.  The fundamental idea is that a S3 number has a finite,
infinitessimal, and infinite component, so is of the form a + b epsilon + c omega.
I declare that, as in the dual numbers, epsilon * epsilon is 0.  I also simplify
the other parts of the multiplication table rather than doing the rigorous
expansions of the surreal numbers: epsilon * omega = 1, as is omega * epsilon,
and omega * omega = omega. (Note: This field is not associative under
multiplcation.  epsilon * omega * omega is either 1 or omega depending on the order
of the operations)

Having defined a 3-part field, my next idea was to see if, when applied to the
mandelbrot algorithm, it yielded a 3-dimensional fractal surface. The initial
experiments here proved that yes, it does, but in an interesting way.  There are
regions of the defined space that show mandelbrot-like fractal features, others
that seem to be smooth curves, and yet others that may be pure chaos.  A viewer
with zooming functionality will be necessary to properly explore the structure.

The current iteration of the viewer is done in python with tkinter.  I may later
switch to a faster language if I cannot squeeze considerably shorter render times,
but for now I want to get this viewer into a functional state.

Task list:
Fully create the interface elements.  I want next zoom points visible and
editable, ability to set a point with the mouse in the windows. Possibly other ways to page frames, and the zoom button itself.
Put in GIT/turn task list into issues?

The numbers are not a field but are a ring since they're not closed under
division: omega/omega could consistently be either 1 or omega.

without numba 200: 1.37
numba doesn't work.  But after parallelizing at the plane
level, 0.16
pypy next, troublesome.
zoom check.
center -0.3225 0.5625 -0.5325
edge -0.3225 0.7125 -0.6825
radius 0.15
minx: -0.4725 maxx=-0.1725
miny=0.4125 maxy=0.7125
minz=-0.6825 maxz=-0.3825

Looking deeply at the fractal shape with a mostly-working
zoom functionality, I certainly do see fractal behavior,
areas that can zoom infinitely and reveal new but similar
structures.  However, it is not very 3-dimension where
it is fractal: the interesting areas are in a very narrow
plane where x=y+C.

Next step: look at the other six options, starting with
the two z^3 fractals.
The right-handed (z*z)*z version looks better; there's
more interesting things going on in the yz plane. I'm
still seeing the symnetry on the xz and xy plane that
almost seems suspicious, like something is wrong somewhere
Left handed is similar enough.
z^3 asymtoptic (omega^2=-omega)